This is only part of the problem, but it
is at least useful that we've constructed
ourselves a trie tree data structure and
just a few lines of code.
We're now gonna need to
adjust our find words
utility to know how to search
through such a data structure.
So, what I'm going to do is
delete, our find words and
our check word, function.
And we'll start over.
So, remember, in the autocomplete sense,
what we really need to do is be able
to get to a part of the tree to know
if we've found a match or
have any other matches that we can go to.
So we're gonna use a very similar concept,
which is we're going to,
again recursively step down our
trie tree until we have convinced
ourselves that there are no more
matches and we're gonna stop.
But if along the way, if we find any notes
where we've got an is word marked then we
know we found a matching word that's
our broad general overall strategy.
So we're just gonna keep traverse for
every word in your dictionary.
Keep traversing the dictionionary, sorry
for every one of our input permutation.
We're gonna keep traversing our tree and
whatever words pop out,
those will be the words that
we spit back as our result.
That'll be our general strategy.
Okay, the first thing that we need
to do is check if we're already,
I'm sorry, we also need to change
the signature of find words.
So we're gonna still pass in the input but
I'm gonna this is another technique
where I'm not creating an inner function
to do my recursion I'm just changing
the signature of the function itself.
In this particular case I'm adding on two
extra parameters that have default values.
So from the perspective of the place
in the code that calls find words,
it still only passes in one argument.
But I've got two other parameters
that have default values and so
I'm able to do this
with the same function.
I just wanted to illustrate to you
that we saw using a sub-function for
our recursiveness.
We've seen using separate functions and
now here
we're just gonna adapt the existing
function to our needs as recursion.
Each one of those is
techniques that you can use.
All right, so the second parameter will be
the prefix starting at the empty string,
as we probably saw before.
And the current node that
we're at in the tree, again,
this being like a node pointer,
a node reference.
So, we'll start that,
we'll default that to the root dictionary.
All right, so the question that we need
to ask is, are we already at a word?
If so, we need to go ahead and
add that into our words list.
So we can say, if node of is word,
have we found a node that is
marked as the end of a word?
Then we need to push in and
this is why we're passing down prefix.
We don't want to go then have to walk
back up the tree to reconstruct our word
remember we got to this node
letter by letter letter by letter.
But we're pushing down with
each level of recursion,
the progressively built up string
that represents that word.
So at this iteration,
if we're at a node that says it's a word,
the thing that's in prefix is
the full word as a string.
We push that down,
that'll save us some work basically.
So we can just push this Into
the list of words that we can return.
And now we start to go through
whatever's left in the input characters.
And again, kind of do our,
basically our permutation
recursively down through our tree.
So we're gonna say for( let i=
0:i< input.length, i++).
Let's pull off the current
letter off of the input.
This looks a lot like when we were pulling
the letter out of the remaining or
whatever it's the same concept here.
So I'll call this current letter.
Input of AI.
It'll start out with the first one and
then the next iteration will take
the second one and so forth.
The question we want to ask is if
the node that we're currently pointed out
wherever that is in the tree,
if the node that we're currently
pointed at has a node for this letter.
If not, there's nothing else for
us to do in this part of the tree, right?
But if it does have a node for
that, then we can keep going down.
So this is the big if statement.
We need to check that.
Now, what we need to do is get the set of
the remaining letters and this is, again,
similar to doing it with Slice.
I'm just gonna show you a slightly
different style of doing it.
We're gonna say that the remaining
letters Is an array.
Rather than keeping that as a string,
I'm just going to keep it as an array.
Arrays and strings are very similar,
but I'm going to keep it as an array.
So I'm just gonna spread out
input.slice from 0 up to i,
and then spread out input.slice
starting at i plus 1.
That should look familiar because that's
the same way we kind of picked out
a single one when we were
doing the permutations.
So I'm going to call find words
with remaining letters as
the input we just computed
remaining letters so
I'm going to pass in remaining
letters as the input.
The prefix is going to be
whatever the prefix was passed to
us plus whatever our current letter is.
So if it was the empty string now it's
the first letter if it was first letter,
now it's the second letter.
And the node is the node
of the current letter.
So now we're walking down in the tree one,
one layer of node reference.
>> So to make that more readable, I'll
put that on to sip A few separate lines.
That's our recursive call and
what does that return back to us?
It returns back an array of a partial
list of matching words potentially.
It'll at least always pass
us back an empty array but
it'll pass us back any words that it
found in its part of the sub-tree.
You with me?
So what we want to do is add
that into the words array.
So I'm gonna do words.push,
and whatever this array is,
I wanna spread that out as
arguments to the push call
Might have returned best back an empty
array in which case it found none and
we're just spreading out an empty
array and doing nothing pushed in.
It might have found thousand words and
we'll put all those in as well
>> They're a little confused on why you're
used the symbol for is word.
And where that could
possibly get mixed up?
>> It could not get mixed up.
I used the symbol because it's
the best semantic coding choice.
This is a special property on the node.
It's not a child property that
represents a letter and a word.
I could have picked some
other thing like 1 2 3 but
the best way of doing this
this is what symbols are for.
Is to create special meta properties
special properties on objects so
I'm just using the JavaScript feature for
what it is for, which is to make
a special set apart character.
But our particular usage of these
objects doesn't enumerate over
the children in some way
where it could get confused.
It just would make more confusing code
to pick some other arbitrary value for
that property name.
One last little thing to fix up
which is that at the end of this for
loop It may not be obvious, but if
the inputs had had any repeat characters.
In other words, if anybody had typed
in the p letter twice in the input,
we would end up with duplicate words.
Because we would have ended up
visiting that same part of the tree
multiple times and got all of its
sub matched words multiple times.
So our list might annoyingly to the user
end up with some duplicates in it.
That's one of the implications
of this algorithm.
And so to fix that up, I'm going to
use the JavaScript set data structure.
I'm going to push our array into a set and
then pull it right back out as an array.
So I'll do that.
New set of words, and
then spread it back out into an array.
So this is just making sure that our
list of words that we return is unique.
Then what's checked in the code
repository, this is how the code looks,
but I want to point out something,
that this is a recursive function.
And because I'm not using
an adapter function,
this function is the actual
one that recurses on itself.
Which means that we are reuniquing
this at every single level before we
return back up.
Which is a whole lot of unnecessary work.
So we really only wanna do
this line at the last level,
right before we return
back to the calling code.
After all the recursion is done, and we've
gotten a big old list of all the possible
words with potentially
a bunch of duplicates in it.
Then we just wannna do one last
deduplication if we had an adapter
function that had called this
one we could put that line of
code in the adapter function and
not in the recursive function.
A way of approximating that same
thing is that we know that when
node is back at the dictionary
level we know that's our last level
out because we always start with the root.
So we can just simply, this is just
a little, it's tiny performance,
it probably wouldn't matter, but
if just as we're thinking about things.
You can say if node is equal to the
dictionary, that let's us know that we're
at the last level, so that's the only
place that we need to do duplicate.
I see the question I'll get to it in
just a moment I just want to finish
typing this.
So what was the question?
>> Can you please clarify why we have
what we have in remaining letters?
>> Okay, so
we are going through the input,
which is the set of characters that we
can basically permute on, let's whatever
the user typed into the input box,
that's a array or string of letters.
It starts out as a string and
we end up turning it into an array, but
the way we use it, it doesn't matter.
And so we're looking at that
set of those letters and
we're saying I wanna take each
one of them as the next letter.
But I want to do that one at a time.
So I'm gonna start with again going
back to the PC, And A example,
I would take P as my current letter.
And then remaining letters is going to be
the array that holds C, E,R and A and
then on the next iteration
of line 43 Waterloo.
Instead of taking P,
now I'm gonna look at C.
So I wanna take C as the letter that
I'm fixed on as my next letter in
a permutation.
And I wanna pull out a remaining
set that has P, E, R, A.
So remaining letters becomes those four.
Then on the next loop of line 43,
I take the e as my next
letter that I'm fixed on and
I get a set of remaining letters,
that is P,C, R and A and
then I keep going.
So it's just pulling out one letter
from the set of possible letters and
getting everything else into another set.
That's what we're doing.
>> Can we just remove duplicate
letters from the input first
>> So if we were to remove duplicate
letters first,
then it would prevent us matching
words like that we want the duplicates in.
Remember that we constrained our problem,
such that you have to pass in PP and
AA if you want the word appear to match.
If we deduplicated that down,
then you would get to the part where you
did A and P, and you'd be looking for
another P in our algorithm, and
it wouldn't be in the input set,.
So therefore we couldn't keep going
down that part of the sub-tree.
So unfortunately,
we can't deduplicate the input letters,
we have to deduplicate the output.
This is just a side effect, if you will,
of the algorithmic choice
that we made here.
That may or may not end up actually,
it won't end up being what we like
about this particular choice.
But we are gonna see the performance
implications that we, little hint,
this is gonna be significantly
more performant.
Because this is a linear algorithm as
compared to the factorial algorithm
that we tried before.
All right, so let's go ahead and
switch on over to our browser.
Now, with our new implementation in place,
pay attention now to these benchmarks for
our data structure for
a 2400 word dictionary.
We ended up creating 5705 nodes.
Each node is only represented
by a single character, but
we are creating about It looks like
they're just about a little more than
twice about two and a half times as
many entries in the data structure.
And for treating entries in a data
structure as units of memory we could sort
of approximate that this is using a little
bit more memory to represent this data
structure.
Looking at the timing of it,
8.6 milliseconds,
I don't remember exactly what
the short dictionary one was,
but I do remember that this one ended
up at something like 20 milliseconds.
So let's see how long it takes.
So that took 210 milliseconds
to construct the tri-tree.
That was about ten times as much time to
construct the try tree as it was to just
copy the array.
Notice also that for
370,000 words, we've got a little bit
over a million entries in our trie tree.
So, yes, we are using both more memory and
more startup time to construct our
trie tree data structure as opposed
to simply copying the array.
What's that gonna buy us?
What's that,
we're paying the more upfront memory and
more upfront performance not horribly,
I mean 0.200 milliseconds is not
that terrible for the startup time.
And a 370,000 word dictionary is
a pretty large dictionary to represent.
So seems like 200 milliseconds is not
that big of a penalty to pay, but
whatever that penalty is that we
are paying, what's that buying us?
What's our runtime performance?
Let's go back to our example.
I'm gonna go back to the 2400 word
dictionary because I remember those
timings a little better.
And let's go back to our eight
character input America.
That's 0.8 of a millisecond.
Let's see what happens
when we go to nine inputs.
It went down actually.
What that doesn't mean is not
that it was faster in any way.
What it means is that it didn't
grow by 5 or 6x like it did before.
Let's try it again.
Let's go to 10.
Went to 1.4 milliseconds.
When we did 10 before, you remember
it was like multiple seconds remember
when I tried meaningful and
that one ended up at like 36 seconds.
Let's try it 0.8 milliseconds.
So now we have a linear search algorithm
and that's a huge payoff win for
us compared to the relatively I would say
small cost that we had to pay to
construct a better data structure.
It's a very good chance that at this
point, you would look at the memory and
performance profile of this solution
compared to relatively not that many
lines of code that you needed to write.
And you would say, I'm done ship it.
Because this is a pretty good balance.
It is taking up a bit more memory.
It is still taking up a bit
more of our time upfront but
it's ending up with a pretty good
overall balanced solution and
nobody would fault you if this is
the one that you said ship it for.
But as we transition into our next
set of discussions there are a few
other things that I want us to
consider about our implementation.